Staying in control and setting boundaries for yourself can be a little bit harder when you're traveling
because you're already a bit or a lot outside your comfort zone, so it's extra important to develop
those mental, physical and legal boundaries as pertains to your travels from a mental and physical
standpoint.
This is largely about self awareness and self-confidence.
Confidence is key to travelling safely, especially as a woman, but it is easier said than done.
Even the most badass, highly trained of us still struggle with feeling totally confident in new environments.
It's perfectly normal, healthy, even because overconfidence can make you too relaxed, and some uncertainty
can help you be more alert.
But you don't want to make it too obvious when you're not feeling entirely confident yet.
So the solution is simple.
Fake it.
Stand in a power pose.
Put on a positive face and pretend to believe in yourself.
Say a mantra to psych yourself up if you need, then see what that does for you in your travels.
Not only will you get around more safely and assuredly, but you will also start to build some real,
actual, bona fide confidence.
Social psychologist and TEDx talk speaker Amy Cuddy calls this the postural feedback effect.
How we carry our bodies affects how we feel about ourselves and how we interact with others.
It's amazing how much you can get away with when you act like you know what you're doing.
Now we want to appear as if we know what we're doing, even when we don't.
So while it is good to ask for help and speak up for yourself when you need it, you still want to be
wary of how much and what kind of attention you're drawing to yourself, especially in potentially sketchy
situations.
You don't have to be friends with everyone.
It's OK to trust your gut.
Depending on the situation and the location, it is sometimes smarter to stay low key and blend in.
The point here is to avoid looking lost or confused, which would make you an easy target for those
with less upstanding intentions.
Plus, it can't hurt to maintain a little mystery.
Don't feel like you need to tell everybody everything about yourself.
You don't know anyone any explanation for who you are or why you're traveling alone.
Again, this is your trip to do on your terms.
You can tell people, however much or little as you want.
Remembering that will help you stay extra safe and strong.